.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Licensed under the OpenIB.org BSD license (FreeBSD Variant) - See COPYING.md
.\"
.TH IBV_CREATE_SRQ_EX 3 2013-06-26 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_create_srq_ex, ibv_destroy_srq \- create or destroy a shared receive queue (SRQ)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "struct ibv_srq *ibv_create_srq_ex(struct ibv_context " "*context" ", struct "
.BI "                               ibv_srq_init_attr_ex " "*srq_init_attr_ex" );
.sp
.BI "int ibv_destroy_srq(struct ibv_srq " "*srq" );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_create_srq_ex()
creates a shared receive queue (SRQ) supporting both basic and xrc modes.
The argument
.I srq_init_attr_ex
is an ibv_srq_init_attr_ex struct, as defined in <infiniband/verbs.h>.
.PP
.nf
struct ibv_srq_init_attr_ex {
.in +8
void                   *srq_context;    /* Associated context of the SRQ */
struct ibv_srq_attr     attr;           /* SRQ attributes */
uint32_t                comp_mask;      /* Identifies valid fields */
enum ibv_srq_type       srq_type;       /* Basic / XRC / tag matching */
struct ibv_pd          *pd;             /* PD associated with the SRQ */
struct ibv_xrcd        *xrcd;           /* XRC domain to associate with the SRQ */
struct ibv_cq          *cq;             /* CQ to associate with the SRQ for XRC mode */
struct ibv_tm_cap       tm_cap;         /* Tag matching attributes */
struct ibv_mp_wr_attr  *mp_wr;          /* with IBV_SRQ_INIT_ATTR_MP_WR */
.in -8
};
.sp
.nf
struct ibv_srq_attr {
.in +8
uint32_t                max_wr;         /* Requested max number of outstanding work requests (WRs) in the SRQ */
uint32_t                max_sge;        /* Requested max number of scatter elements per WR */
uint32_t                srq_limit;      /* The limit value of the SRQ */
.in -8
};
.sp
.nf
struct ibv_tm_cap {
.in +8
uint32_t                max_num_tags;   /* Tag matching list size */
uint32_t                max_ops;        /* Number of outstanding tag list operations */
.in -8
};
.sp
.nf
struct ibv_mp_wr_attr {
.in +8
size_t                  buffer_sz; /* size in bytes of the entire buffer of a single mp wr */
uint32_t                min_align_sz; /* min bytes for alignment of a new message in the mp wr buffer */
.in -8
};
.sp
.nf
.fi
.PP
A SRQ can be created with support for multi-packet work requests by setting the IBV_SRQ_INIT_ATTR_MP_WR
.I comp_mask\fR.
A multi-packet work request can receive multiple packets within a single ibv_recv_wr. The max number of packets a single MP_WR will receive is determined by the size of the
.I buffer_sz
divided by the
.I min_align_sz\fR,
which defines the number of aligned segments.
Multiple completions can be generated for a single ibv_recv_wr, one per received packet. ibv_wc_flags will report the extra MP_WR completion flags and ibv_wc_read_mp_wr_offset() will report the bytes offset in the buffer of the respectful ibv_recv_wr.
.I cq
must be created as ibv_cq_ex with the IBV_WC_EX_WITH_MP_WR flag in order to handle the additional multi-packet WR's info.
.PP
The function
.B ibv_create_srq_ex()
will update the
.I srq_init_attr_ex
struct with the original values of the SRQ that was created; the
values of max_wr and max_sge will be greater than or equal to the
values requested. Similarly, the
.I mp_wr
values, buffer_sz and min_align_sz, will get updated with greater than or equal to the values requested.
.sp
.B ibv_destroy_srq()
destroys the SRQ
.I srq\fR.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_create_srq_ex()
returns a pointer to the created SRQ, or NULL if the request fails.
.PP
.B ibv_destroy_srq()
returns 0 on success, or the value of errno on failure (which indicates the failure reason).
.SH "NOTES"
.B ibv_destroy_srq()
fails if any queue pair is still associated with this SRQ.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibv_alloc_pd (3),
.BR ibv_modify_srq (3),
.BR ibv_query_srq (3)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP
Yishai Hadas <yishaih@mellanox.com>
